```
#include <iostream>
int main(){
  std::cout<<"hello world!";
  return 0;
}
```
### [A link to my self portrait](https://elvti.github.io/self.portrait)

## Week 1 Reflection

  Prior to reading “Technology and Ideology: The Case of the Telegraph” by James W. Carey, I hadn’t thought about the significance of such an archaic communication technology. After all, it was just another primitive form of communication, just like pagers or mail. While the former had existed shortly before my time, thus I still experienced its legacy, and the latter is still commonly used today, the telegraph was something I never had a complete grasp on aside from watching old movies and cartoons. Never would I have known that the telegraph had such profound impacts on those living during that time. It had opened up “the first great industrial monopoly”, an entirely new industry, and changed the way we thought about social and business interactions (Carey 2). However, upon examining the changes telegraphs brought to the 1800s society, I noticed many aspects that resonate with the 21st century surge of modern technologies, which until now I had thought of as unique.

  Carey argued that while the ideology behind the telegraph may seem like an entirely new one, it was built on foundations already existing in our society (2). In some sense, the telegraph is very similar to the Internet. Just like there is no other alternatives to compare our Internet to (Dourish, there was nothing quite like the telegraph when it was invented. For us modern humans, it is difficult to imagine the world without the internet, and its expansion and domination of our lives makes it hard for us to perceive what more can be done, and what greater technologies will follow. 

  Also like the Internet, the telegraph created a whole new industry. For the telegraph’s case, it was connecting previously separated markets and monetizing the electrical communications industry. It laid groundworks for many new forms of communication to follow, such as the telephone. It created the 1800s equivalent of e-marketing and allowed the flow of commodities to transcend the flow of time. The Internet, too, created the foundation for many other forms of technology and industry, such as artificial intelligence, e-marketing, search engines and online databases, and the development of new hardware that implements these technologies. Furthermore, if the telegraph allowed detachment of communication and transportation, the Internet then allowed detachment of reality and virtuality. With more and more information being available in the “cloud”, we are once again redefining information transfer.

  While the Internet boasts its freedom and empowerment of the individual, the same concerns of the telegraph still exists today. Back in the day, the monopoly and centralized set-up of telegraph transmission led to a “selective control and transmission of information” (Carey 10). The business monopoly eventually turned into a spiritual one. However, that concern in the case of the Internet has taken form in government censorship and media partisanship. Despite its decentralized scheme, the flow of information is not fully at will. A handful of entities hold the power to determine what the majority of users sees. In a spiritual sense, the power is still centralized, even if the sender and receiver do not realize it.

  How does the history of the telegraph connect to modern technologies? From all of these similarities, it is easy to ask whether the Internet would become just like the telegraph, a groundbreaking invention of its time that is soon replaced. After all, just like how it was hard to predict the birth of the Internet during an era of telephones, it would be just as hard for us modern humans engrossed in the Internet to predict its downfall. However, as much as I can perceive, I think that it “the Cycle” of communications technology, described by Tim Wu in his book _The Master Switch_ (6), will end here at the Internet. Unlike the telegraph, which was created on privately owned hardware and controls to be monopolized, industrialized, and monetized, the Internet was created to be a common platform that can foster even more technological advancements. So then, more precisely, I think that the Internet transcends the Cycle, and is simply not part of it.

### Works Cited

Carey, James W. “Technology and Ideology: The Case of the Telegraph.” _Prospects_, vol. 8, 
  1983, pp. 303–325., doi:10.1017/s0361233300003793.

Wu, Tim. _The Master Switch: the Rise and Fall of Information Empires_. Atlantic Books, 2012.

## Week 2 Reflection

For a long time, I found the word “hypertext” very hard to grasp. Since I grew acquainted with the World Wide Web (WWW) at a very young age, the concept of hypertext became vague as it not only integrated into my browsing experience, but also my everyday mode of thinking and perceiving knowledge. However, even that is not a completely correct statement, as the concept of hypertext, hyperlink, and hypermedia arose from the nonlinear nature of our society and how our brains process new knowledge (the former is briefly explored in Tim Berners-Lee's proposal for the WWW in a corporate setting). Furthermore, the original concept of hypertext came with many different variants of nonlinear information structures. So, why the “current” hypertext as we know it? Based on my readings, experience, and personal preferences, I will give a speculation for the success of discrete hypertexts, which consist of linked chunks of texts.


But first, we need to be clear about what hypertext is. The article “What Hypertext Is” by Wardrip-Fruin identifies several aspects of hypertexts as well as its distinction with the more general term, hypermedia. According to Espen Aarseth, hypertext is defined as a “connection from one position in a text to another” (qtd. in Wardrip-Fruin 1). It is meant to be a hands-on and intuitive way to interact with information by building associations and knowledge. Hypertext, a type of nonlinear media that primarily operates textually, is a subcategory of hypermedia, which refers to all types of nonlinear media.

Ted Nelson, the first person to coin the term “hypertext”, introduced two types of hypertext in his book “No More Teachers’ Dirly Looks”, called “discrete hypertext” and “stretchtext” (qtd. in Wardrip-Fruin 2).

_Discrete hypertexts_ are consolidated chunks that may be related to other chunks in the same body of text. A more concrete analogy would be a mind map. It is the predominant structure in the WWW as we know it today, as seen in the original proposal for the WWW (Berners-Lee 2). It branches upon request of the user, but does not take away from the experience of viewing the big picture. The branching nature of discrete hypertext utilizes a modern computer’s multitasking user interface to its fullness. On the microscopic scale, the webbed structure of discrete hypertexts more or less resembles how information is organized in our brain - from perception of information to integration and processing to response and storage. All of these rely on the complex web of neurons that make these associations possible. On the macroscopic scale, the webbed structure resembles social interaction, sharing of ideas, and management of information across a large organization. It is due to these resemblances to everyday life that has made discrete hypertext so popular. It feels intuitive to the user.

_Stretchtext_, on the other hand, resembles a plain text version of a zoomable “hypermap” (Wardrip-Fruin 2). The closest thing we have that is still commonly in use is a collapsable text block. However, its zooming ability is discrete and not lengthening by “minute degrees” (Wardrip-Fruin 2). Instead of branching, it “zooms” or performs upon request. I personally find that it prevents the reader from viewing the big picture because one could easily get lost in the expansions of a subtopic. It is also completely serial, unlike a mind map, where there is no order or level. Although the human brain essentially processes serially, we can switch tasks very easily. The stretchtext, when implemented on a computer screen, does not allow efficient task switching, and thus is not taking advantage of the full potentials of our brain. Furthermore, the amount of clicking required to get to the right level of detail is unknown to the user at the start of browsing. Stretchtext, then, is clearly not a good candidate for the WWW. That being said, stretchtext may be useful in certain settings in learning, such as when axioms and key points are laid out this way. When information is presented this way, there is clarity and order, and it does create a local multidimensionality to the material. It could also be useful for someone who may want to get a quick picture. However, for a learner of a completely new material, there is a limit to how much stretching on a topic one can handle at a given time. Although I personally prefer to organize my notes (information output) in a numbered manner, like most textbooks, I fully realize the limit when trying to design something meant to be as input using stretchtexts. Also, as the designer of a stretchtext, it is not easy to judge how much detail to include in each level of an expandable topic., since there is an uncertainty in how much detail will be required for each reader. All in all, stretchtext is not as flexible as discrete hypertexts. The links in discrete hypertexts could be designed in a way to mimic seriality, but stretchtext cannot mimic a webbed structure. 

### Works Cited

Berners-Lee, Tim. “Information Management: A Proposal.” _The Original Proposal of the WWW, HTMLized_,     
  www.w3.org/History/1989/proposal.html.

Wardrip-Fruin, Noah. “What Hypertext Is.” _Proceedings of the Fifteenth ACM Conference on Hypertext & 
  Hypermedia - HYPERTEXT 04_, Aug. 2004, doi:10.1145/1012807.1012844.

## Week 3 Reflection

For me, creating is a long and painful process. Lots of table flips, face palms, and restless pacing. Most of my creativity spawns from the deepest, darkest times of the night. I resonate with the serenity in such moments, as well as the underlying anticipation of the disorder that arises with dawn. Life is an absurd combination of opposites, and we as human beings seek to extract order from disorder.

I started from an idea of creating a collage of snippets I took over the years. In particular, I wanted to put together images of the sky I took from various places. The sky always intrigued me, because of the vastness and capricious temperament of it. No matter where I was in the world, I would always be looking at the same sky, the same sun, and the same moon as someone thousands of miles away. However, the technical challenges of combining such a multilayered design and code made me drop that idea. Instead, I focused on the emotions it elicited. Relaxing, but bitter and filled with nostalgia.

I moved to a new country when I was 11. Thousands of miles away from home, no friends, no relations, nothing. People around me spoke a foreign language that I did not understand. I had been living inside my own bubble all along, and didn’t realize how vain it all was. For the few times I did travel back to visit my family, the anxiety of the next departure always loomed over me. And in my alone times I resorted to music. More specifically, piano music. Sometimes I wondered when it would all end. I wondered when I will be able to stop living like a wanderer. Sometimes I felt like I was driving myself insane. I felt the pressure from the world around me, laughing at my incompetence. Sometimes I fantasized how things would end up if I started over.  Sometimes the music in my head wouldn’t end, and would just play on and on until it becomes squished and distorted.

Thankfully, there was the internet. It was 2009, and my hometown in China had just replaced dial up access with broadband access a few years back. It was the rise of a new empire, a capitalism takeover in the nominally communist country. Video calling was a relatively new and fascinating technology. Video calls enabled people like me to connect with their family back home, no matter where they were. It felt like my family was just in another room on the other side of the screen. Video calling added another dimension to the detachment of space, time, and thought. Sounds and images travelled through the wires across the ocean with virtually no delays. Those working far away could now witness their child growing up, their parents growing old. Yet, I was here, and they were there. We remained forever separated by an invisible screen. I interpreted this as incongruity. Absurdity of life.

Years go by, and I have now settled in my new residence, a new culture. I turned out fine, with no major insanity. As commutation technologies developed, transportation also developed. It is now much easier to fly back to my hometown to visit my family. Yet, the invisible screen persisted. All that I’ve been through have now been engrained in my head, and I am a different person than I would have been. Every bit of who I am right now has its roots in the move that changed me forever, and the internet, despite the boasts of creating a global village, could not circumvent that.

For the creation of this project, I was inspired by Stranger Things, in which the character El has the ability to go inside someone’s mind and read their stream of thought. If someone were to dig deeper and deeper into my stream of thought, it might look something like this. Enjoy.

## Week 4 Reflection

In the very beginning of this class, we learned about how the invention and monopolization of the early infotech, such as the telegraph, was the first to apply economies of scale to the communications market (Carey 4). Up until then, Ford Motors was the prime example of capitalism and the benefits of mass production.

It may be hard to see that Ford Motors, with its streamlined production, is really no different from modern day communications technology in many ways. Modern communications technology is a monopoly or oligopoly that manages the flow of information across a network. With high coverage and an established dependency around the world, the sole profit from information transfer became insufficient. Neo-capitalists found more and more ways to extract profit from the loyal and unaware users - behavioral data. Behavioral data could be collected and analyzed by a computer to generate predictions of future user behavior, and infer about users’ information that they otherwise would not have provided. The collection of user behavioral data through an online platform circumvents consent and individual awareness. Then, these data are packaged and sent to other companies who take advantage of this data to better market their products to the user. Mass data collection, coupled with packaged “behavioral futures”, as Zuboff calls them, is a new form of production line where the individual is stripped of any form of self-determination, and becomes subjects and commodities in a market they have no say in and do not benefit from, all in the name of personalization.

This is not only an invasion of privacy. 

This leads to the dehumanization of users, where you are defined by what link you click, what article you read, and when. It is not important what your name is, what your values are, and what you had for dinner, though the “Big Other” can easily find out anyway. You are the market commodity. Companies out there are betting on what you might do next.

Yet, it’s not that easy to step out. What started out as a way to connect people has become a hub for surveillance. Companies like Google, Apple, and Amazon are doing everything they can to keep their users loyal. They are constantly introducing services and products that directly intervene with the users’ lives in the name of convenience. Amazon’s home assistant Alexa is just one example of constant surveillance. Alexa can have control over the dimness of lights, locking of doors, and what the user buys and sees on Amazon.com. Apple, too, is going for the seamless flow of information from phones to tablets to computers to TVs. And the users happily become the next guinea pig, willingly give up their information just so they can spend one less minute thinking about directions to work, what to have for dinner tonight, or whether they are low on laundry detergent.

The Black Mirror episode “White Christmas” provides a good analogy. Companies are always trying to get into us consumers’ heads. Black Mirror played with that idea and created a fictional personal assistant called “cookie”. It is a copy of the user’s entire consciousness, all into code and stored in an egg-shaped gadget. It pokes fun at how hard companies are trying to make their virtual assistants smarter, better understand their user, and form a more tailored and self-contained environment for the user. And the only way to do so is to actually get inside the user’s head. Self-containment suggests that the user lives in a self-sustaining information sphere, enforcing the user’s own ignorance. When daily logistics, socialization, work and education, and information access all depend on the cozy environment designed and built for us by these oligopolies, one has no choice but to acquiesce, to conform.

These sly entrepreneurs are expanding into new territory, taking advantage of the lack of a body of law, because lawmakers simply can’t keep up with the development of such technology happening behind closed curtains. The organization of such an industry, as well as the politics involved in it, are unprecedented. Traditional capitalism revolves around three principles, as Shoshana Zuboff explains in her speech at Forum Privatheit Interdisciplinary conference: people into labour, nature into real estate, and exchange into money. Neo-capitalism turns people into commodity, networks into spies, and habits into money.

### Works Cited

Brooker, Charlie. “Black Mirror.” _Black Mirror_, season 2, episode 4, Channel 4, 16 Dec. 2014.

Carey, James W. “Technology and Ideology: The Case of the Telegraph.” _Prospects_, vol. 8, 1983, pp. 303–325., doi:10.1017/s0361233300003793.

Zuboff, Shoshana, speech on the interdisciplinary conference of the “Forum Privatheit” in Munich on 11 and 12 October 2018 with the topic “The Future of Data Economics”.
