---
layout: post
title:  "Week 2"
---

## Week 2 Reflection

For a long time, I found the word “hypertext” very hard to grasp. Since I grew acquainted with the World Wide Web (WWW) at a very young age, the concept of hypertext became vague as it not only integrated into my browsing experience, but also my everyday mode of thinking and perceiving knowledge. However, even that is not a completely correct statement, as the concept of hypertext, hyperlink, and hypermedia arose from the nonlinear nature of our society and how our brains process new knowledge (the former is briefly explored in Tim Berners-Lee's proposal for the WWW in a corporate setting). Furthermore, the original concept of hypertext came with many different variants of nonlinear information structures. So, why the “current” hypertext as we know it? Based on my readings, experience, and personal preferences, I will give a speculation for the success of discrete hypertexts, which consist of linked chunks of texts.

But first, we need to be clear about what hypertext is. The article “What Hypertext Is” by Wardrip-Fruin identifies several aspects of hypertexts as well as its distinction with the more general term, hypermedia. According to Espen Aarseth, hypertext is defined as a “connection from one position in a text to another” (qtd. in Wardrip-Fruin 1). It is meant to be a hands-on and intuitive way to interact with information by building associations and knowledge. Hypertext, a type of nonlinear media that primarily operates textually, is a subcategory of hypermedia, which refers to all types of nonlinear media.

Ted Nelson, the first person to coin the term “hypertext”, introduced two types of hypertext in his book “No More Teachers’ Dirly Looks”, called “discrete hypertext” and “stretchtext” (qtd. in Wardrip-Fruin 2).

_Discrete hypertexts_ are consolidated chunks that may be related to other chunks in the same body of text. A more concrete analogy would be a mind map. It is the predominant structure in the WWW as we know it today, as seen in the original proposal for the WWW (Berners-Lee 2). It branches upon request of the user, but does not take away from the experience of viewing the big picture. The branching nature of discrete hypertext utilizes a modern computer’s multitasking user interface to its fullness. On the microscopic scale, the webbed structure of discrete hypertexts more or less resembles how information is organized in our brain - from perception of information to integration and processing to response and storage. All of these rely on the complex web of neurons that make these associations possible. On the macroscopic scale, the webbed structure resembles social interaction, sharing of ideas, and management of information across a large organization. It is due to these resemblances to everyday life that has made discrete hypertext so popular. It feels intuitive to the user.

_Stretchtext_, on the other hand, resembles a plain text version of a zoomable “hypermap” (Wardrip-Fruin 2). The closest thing we have that is still commonly in use is a collapsable text block. However, its zooming ability is discrete and not lengthening by “minute degrees” (Wardrip-Fruin 2). Instead of branching, it “zooms” or performs upon request. I personally find that it prevents the reader from viewing the big picture because one could easily get lost in the expansions of a subtopic. It is also completely serial, unlike a mind map, where there is no order or level. Although the human brain essentially processes serially, we can switch tasks very easily. The stretchtext, when implemented on a computer screen, does not allow efficient task switching, and thus is not taking advantage of the full potentials of our brain. Furthermore, the amount of clicking required to get to the right level of detail is unknown to the user at the start of browsing. Stretchtext, then, is clearly not a good candidate for the WWW. That being said, stretchtext may be useful in certain settings in learning, such as when axioms and key points are laid out this way. When information is presented this way, there is clarity and order, and it does create a local multidimensionality to the material. It could also be useful for someone who may want to get a quick picture. However, for a learner of a completely new material, there is a limit to how much stretching on a topic one can handle at a given time. Although I personally prefer to organize my notes (information output) in a numbered manner, like most textbooks, I fully realize the limit when trying to design something meant to be as input using stretchtexts. Also, as the designer of a stretchtext, it is not easy to judge how much detail to include in each level of an expandable topic., since there is an uncertainty in how much detail will be required for each reader. All in all, stretchtext is not as flexible as discrete hypertexts. The links in discrete hypertexts could be designed in a way to mimic seriality, but stretchtext cannot mimic a webbed structure. 

### Works Cited

Berners-Lee, Tim. “Information Management: A Proposal.” _The Original Proposal of the WWW, HTMLized_,     
  www.w3.org/History/1989/proposal.html.

Wardrip-Fruin, Noah. “What Hypertext Is.” _Proceedings of the Fifteenth ACM Conference on Hypertext & 
  Hypermedia - HYPERTEXT 04_, Aug. 2004, doi:10.1145/1012807.1012844.
